feat(metro): add web worker support on web (#34938)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/config/metro.mdx

}
```

> ## Web Workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Web workers
```

> This feature is experimental and subject to breaking changes.

```ts
new Worker(new URL('./worker', window.location.href));
```

Expo Metro has experimental web worker support in SDK 53 and above. This feature is currently web-only and does not work on native, usage on native will trigger an error "Property 'Worker' doesn't exist".

Web workers can be used to offload work to a separate thread on web, allowing the main thread to remain responsive. This is useful for computationally expensive tasks, such as image processing, cryptography, or other tasks that would otherwise block the main thread.

> Workers can be generated inline using `Blob` but sometimes you may want to leverage modern features like TypeScript or importing other modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers can be generated inline using `Blob`, but sometimes you may want to leverage modern features like TypeScript or importing other modules.
```

Web workers depend on Expo bundle splitting support, which means you need to either use Expo Router or install and import `@expo/metro-runtime`. You also cannot use the environment `EXPO_NO_METRO_LAZY=1` with web workers.

Consider the following example of a worker that doubles a number:

```ts worker.ts
self.onmessage = ({ data }) => {
  const result = data * 2; // Example: double the number
  self.postMessage(result);
};
```

This worker file can be imported as a `Worker` in the main app:

```ts
// worker is of type `Worker`
const worker = new Worker(new URL('./worker', window.location.href));

worker.onmessage = ({ data }) => {
  console.log(`Worker responded: ${data}`);
};

worker.postMessage(5);
```

Behind the scenes, Expo CLI is generating code like this:

```ts
const worker = new Worker(
  new URL('/worker.bundle?platform=web&dev=true&etc', window.location.href)
);
```

The generated bundle URL changes based on development/production to ensure the worker is loaded and bundled correctly. Unlike traditional bundle splitting, a worker file needs to contain its own copy of all modules and cannot depend on common modules in the main bundle.

> The native API `Worker` is not traditionally available in React Native and not provided by the Expo SDK so even though this bundling feature technically works for all platforms, it's only useful on web. You could theoretically write a native Expo module that polyfills the `Worker` API if you want to support native platforms too. Alternatively, you can use "worklet" API in React Native Reanimated to offload work to a separate thread on native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The native API `Worker` is traditionally unavailable in React Native and not provided by the Expo SDK, so even though this bundling feature technically works for all platforms, it's only useful on web. You could theoretically write a native Expo module that polyfills the `Worker` API if you want to support native platforms too. Alternatively, you can use the "worklet" API in React Native Reanimated to offload work to a separate thread on native.
```

> Alternatively, you can import Workers using the public path by first putting a transformed JS file in the `/public` directory, then referencing it in the worker import with a variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can import Workers using the public path by first putting a transformed JS file in the **public** directory, then referencing it in the worker import with a variable:
```

```ts
// Will avoid the transform and use the public path directly.
const worker = new Worker('/worker.js');

// The variable breaks the transform causing the literal path to be used instead of the transformed path.
const path = '/worker.js';

const anotherWorker = new Worker(new URL(path, window.location.href));
```

> Using a variable in the `Worker` constructor is not supported for bundling. If you wish to inspect the internal URL, you can use the internal syntax `require.unstable_resolveWorker('./path/to/worker.js')` to get the URL fragment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a variable in the `Worker` constructor is not supported for bundling. To inspect the internal URL, you may use the internal syntax `require.unstable_resolveWorker('./path/to/worker.js')` to get the URL fragment.
```
